---
title: Replication
---

Replication is enabled for all paid Upstash databases. The data is replicated to
multiple instances. Replication provides you high availability and better
scalability.

### High Availability

Replication makes your database resilient to failures because even one of the
replicas is not available, your database continues to work.

There are two types of replicas in Upstash Redis: primary replicas and read replicas. Primary replicas handle both reads and writes, while read replicas are used only for reads. 

In all subscription plans, primary replicas are highly available with multiple replicas to ensure that even if one fails, your database continues to function.

If a read replica fails, your database remains operational, and you can still read from the primary replicas, though with higher latency. 
When [Prod Pack](https://upstash.com/docs/redis/overall/enterprise#prod-pack-features) is enabled, read replicas are also highly available. This ensures that if one read replica fails, you can read from another read replica in the same region without any additional latency. 

### Better Scalability

In a replicated database, your requests are evenly distributed among the
replicas using a round-robin approach. As your throughput requirements grow,
additional replicas can be added to the cluster to handle the increased workload
and maintain high performance. This scalability feature ensures that your
database can effectively meet the demands of high throughput scenarios.

### Architecture

We use the single leader replication model. Each key is owned by a leader
replica and other replicas become the backups of the leader. Writes on a key are
processed by the leader replica first then propagated to backup replicas. Reads
can be performed from any replica. This model gives a better write consistency
and read scalability.

### Consistency

Each replica in the cluster utilizes a failure detector to monitor the status of
the leader replica. In the event that the leader replica fails, the remaining
replicas initiate a new leader election process to select a new leader. During
this leader election round, which is the only unavailability window for the
cluster, there may be a short period of time where your requests can be
temporarily blocked.

However, once a new leader is elected, normal operations resume, ensuring the
continued availability of the cluster. This mechanism ensures that any potential
unavailability caused by leader failure is minimized, and the cluster can
quickly recover and resume processing requests.

Checkout [Read Your Writes](/redis/howto/readyourwrites) for more details on how to achieve RYW consistency.